Well, in just a few minutes' time, we have a very special part of our program that has been prepared for us.
It's a special musical interlude.
If we could mention this year, although every year it's very important for us to sit respectfully and listen to it,
this year even more so because, as you realize, we have four new songs.
And our musical interlude will include the four new songs.
So believe me, it is very beneficial for all of us to sit respectfully and just absorb the music so that we're ready for the first song
because we're going to start with the hardest one.
So the music program, as part of our program, will start in just a few seconds' time.
Beautiful new kingdom songs for us to sing, and we look forward to hearing you sing those songs today.
Well, we wish you warm welcome to all those here in our auditorium at Patterson,
as well as all the various locations tied in here in the United States, as well as Canada,
and also all our dear brothers and sisters around the world who will be watching this program on JW Broadcasting in a few days' time.
We have a lot of good things to look forward to.
But as a reminder, before we actually start with our song,
you may realize on the back of your lapel card there's a special instruction,
and we're not going to ask you to take it out, I'll read it to you.
It says, as a reminder, it's requested that no flash cameras be used during the program.
Any picture taken without flash must be taken from your seat location.
No recordings of any kind of permitted.
Cellular telephones, electronic tablets or similar devices should not be used to transmit any part of the program.
Program notes with a hard copy or electronic should not be distributed to others.
And of course it goes without saying that we want to make sure that any cellular phones or other devices are turned off so that they don't disturb others.
Well, we have an opportunity now to join together, to join our voices and singing one of the new songs.
It's song 142, the title of which is preaching to all sorts of people.
At the conclusion of the song, Brother Seth hired a helper to the service committee will offer the prayer, so song 142.
Privilege, it is for us to be gathered here together with the students, soon to be graduates of the 138th Class of Gilead.
We know you're probably very nervous, it's a very special day for you, we want you to relax and enjoy the graduation program.
As you realize, you'll have talks given to you by members of the governing bodies, some helpers to governing body committees,
and some of the instructors also have some final words that they would like to share with you.
But at the start I have an opportunity to be able to talk to you a little bit about the future.
See at this point, I'm sure you'll all agree with me, you've learnt so much, you've studied so much.
Before you came to Gilead, you thought you knew about personal study, didn't you?
Now you have a totally different viewpoint when it comes to what personal study involves.
So now that you've gained all this instruction, what next?
As you go to your assignment, whether it be returning back to where you came from or to a new assignment, what will you do with what you've learnt?
Well the answer to that question, we could find in the words of the Apostle Paul, to Timothy, if you'd like to turn with me, to 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 2.
And we could say this is the prayer of the governing body as well, that you will follow the instructions given here, 2 Timothy chapter 2, verse 2.
And the things you heard from me that were supported by many witnesses, these things entrust to faithful men who in turn will be adequately qualified to teach others.
Now whether your brothers or sisters, this information that you have is something that you can entrust to others.
In Greek it basically means to set before others, but in English it's a very nice expression isn't it, to entrust to others.
It denotes a measure of confidence or trust in the person that you're giving this information to.
And in this way as you help others, strengthen others, perhaps many of whom cannot speak in English, so they would never have an opportunity to come here to Gilead, they can gain benefits from the beautiful experiences you've had.
That of course is very opposite to the world, we now have people tend to not want to give out their experience to others.
In fact in the Pacific we have an expression that literally means someone keeps the word to himself.
And certainly none of us would want to be like that, to infer that we have some secret knowledge or special training that nobody else can gain.
Because the truth of the matter is most of the material that you've discussed is from God's word, the Bible or from the publications that explain it.
And of course most of those are available to the brothers in the various language groups.
So with that in mind, for you to be able to entrust to others what you've learned, it requires that you have the correct viewpoint with regard to privileges.
Now you could perhaps take the viewpoint, well now I've received this special training.
I'm going back or going to a new assignment, now I am the one who should receive the privileges.
I mean who else? I'm the one who's been trained.
But rather than feel that way, how important it is for us to treasure privileges but not hoard them.
You see, to treasure means to value, to hoard means to collect things that are valuable and hide them.
So never hoard privileges, thinking that you're the only person on the surface of the earth who qualifies to have the privilege.
But be willing to train others, not afraid of the fact that perhaps later they will get some of your privileges.
And let's face it, maybe they'll do even a better job of caring for those privileges if you train them correctly.
Now with that in mind, I thought we might think of the example of the Prophet Moses.
Moses had many wonderful privileges.
But perhaps we could just think of one example involving the tent of meeting.
Now which tent of meeting are we talking about?
Well you might be thinking, oh it's the sanctuary.
No.
And inside volume it explains there were actually two tents of meeting.
Turn with me please to the book of Exodus chapter 33.
And here it describes what happened when Moses came down from Mount Sinai and what he did at that point.
Exodus 33 and verse 7.
Now Moses took notice his tent, so Moses' personal tent, and pitched it outside the camp at some distance from the camp.
And he called it a tent of meeting.
Everyone inquiring of Jehovah would go out to the tent of meeting which was outside the camp.
Now by contrast you remember the sanctuary was placed right in the middle of the camp.
But here Moses had a special privilege.
His personal tent was set up outside the camp and that became a tent of meeting.
Now what sort of privileges were associated with this?
Just imagine if it was your tent.
Well let's read on verses 8-11.
As soon as Moses went out to the tent all the people would rise and stand at the entrance of their own tents.
And they would gaze after Moses until he entered into the tent.
Can you visualize that?
Here's this tent outside the camp.
Moses goes to it.
Everyone goes out of the tents and gazes at Moses.
Verse 9, as soon as Moses would go into the tent the pillar of cloud would come down and stand at the entrance of the tent while God spoke with Moses.
Do you see a privilege here?
The cloud, the pillar of cloud.
Just above whose tent?
Moses' tent.
We read on.
When all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent each of them rose and bowed down at the entrance of his own tent.
Jehovah spoke to Moses face to face just as one man would speak to another man.
What a wonderful privilege Moses had.
In the few months before the tabernacle was built his tent became, you might say, the center of worship.
All eyes were upon Moses and his tent.
Can you imagine that pillar of cloud there hovering over the entrance of his tent?
But then what happened?
Well as time went on Jehovah told Moses about the building of the tabernacle.
The tabernacle was completed and then what happened?
Well let's turn across to Exodus 40 and verses 34 and 35.
And the cloud began to cover the tent of meeting.
Now this is the tabernacle, not Moses' tent.
And Jehovah's glory filled the tabernacle.
Moses was not able to go into the tent of meeting because the cloud remained over it.
So what had happened?
Well instead of having the privilege of the pillar of cloud there above his own personal tent,
now that shifted right to the center of the camp.
No longer were all eyes turned to Moses and his place of resonance.
Not only that, we noticed at this point he wasn't even allowed to go into the inner part of the tabernacle.
Because there's a question as to whether he was ever allowed later to go in again.
One option has been mentioned that perhaps he went into the holy and stood before the curtain and spoke to Jehovah.
But we can't be dogmatic about what happened.
One thing we do know though is that Aaron was then installed as a high priest along with his sons as priests.
So what happened?
Basically Moses lost a privilege.
It was transferred over to Aaron to represent the Israelites in worship.
And Moses' tent, what happened to it?
Well, it no longer had a pillar of cloud over it.
But the lesson is, do we hear of Moses complaining and saying things were a lot better when they used my tent?
Did he complain about the fact that now he was no longer the center of worship than everyone was looking to him?
No, we have no indication of that at all.
Why? Because Moses was happy to work with Jehovah's arrangement to see his brother get extra privileges and to see an arrangement set in place.
Do we see the lesson for us today?
You see, Jehovah's arrangement is for us to train others.
And as we train them, they become qualified.
And perhaps then they can train others.
We should never, ever, ever hoard those privileges.
And think, I can't train this person too much, otherwise they may take over the privilege that I have.
Treasure whatever privilege you have, but never hoard privileges.
Yes, be sure to entrust to faithful persons the beautiful things that you've learned here at Gilead.
Well, we have many good things to share with you.
And we've just started our program.
The next brother in our program is Brother Kenneth Flodin.
He's a helper to the teaching committee.
And Brother Flodin is going to ask you the question, will you be frightened by the sound of a leaf?
As you know, the focus of Gilead is to train students so that they will be able to strengthen and stabilize God's people.
Well, that's quite a responsibility for you to carry with you to your respective assignments.
And in the future, you will face some circumstances that might be intimidating, even frightening.
Please find the book of Leviticus 26.
Leviticus 26.
And most of this book is legislative writing.
But the all scripture book says of chapter 26, the book of Leviticus reaches its climax in this chapter.
Jehovah here lists the rewards for obedience and the punishments for disobedience.
Now look at Leviticus 26, verse 3.
It says, if you continue walking in my statutes and keeping my commandments and carrying them out, I will give you showers of rain at their proper time.
And then at this blessing, after blessing that would come to them, if they kept Jehovah's commandments.
If they did what was expected of them, no matter how intimidating or threatening circumstance might seem to be.
Well, what about you students of Gillian?
For five months, you've considered the commandments of Jehovah.
But you will you fully carry out what is expected of you, no matter how intimidating or frightening circumstances might seem.
Well, what if the Israelites shirk the responsibility?
They did not live up to Jehovah's expectations.
Well, in verses 15 to 34, it describes the calamities that would befall them.
One thing slaughtered by their enemies, desolating of Jerusalem.
But then it does say that some would survive that calamity.
But how did Jehovah describe them?
Read now with me, Leviticus 26, 36.
As for those who survive, I will fill their hearts with despair in the lands of their enemies.
And the sound of a blowing leaf will cause them to flee.
And they will flee like someone running from the sword and fall without anyone pursuing them.
Scared of their own shadow, what a ludicrous word picture running scared from a dried-up leaf.
Well, when you students get to your assignments, no matter what challenges you face, will you be intimidated?
Will you be frightful?
Face them.
With Jehovah's help, just you them as a mere shriveled-up leaf.
Well, since your primary role is to strengthen and stabilize God's people, then you students should not be content to be merely a faithful missionary.
Or a faithful Bethelite.
What did Paul expect of Timothy?
He expected him to take the lead in the congregations, spearhead the work, to wrestle down thorny issues to set matter straight, not just placidly faithful.
In fact, in 1 Timothy 412, Timothy was told, become an example to the faithful ones.
You, soon to be graduates, you're to become an example to the faithful ones in your branch territory.
But what if the Israelites shirk the responsibility?
They didn't live up to Jehovah's standards.
Well, exactly what we said, they would have calamity.
Live up to which Jehovah expects of you.
Well, what are some of these circumstances that might be intimidating or frightening?
In Matthew 10, Jesus said, you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake.
Then He said, don't be anxious.
Do not be frightened at the sound of a leaf.
So yes, some of you will actually deal with government officials for the sake of the good news.
This stability of a government is another real factor in some of the countries to which you will go.
And Satan uses the wind of nationalism to blow a leaf, to foment opposition because of our neutral stand.
Will you, brothers and sisters, be an example to the faithful ones, not frightened by the sound of a leaf?
The missionary couple was assigned to a densely populated city.
And they became so fearful of being mugged that it affected their ministry.
They talked about leaving their assignment.
But now some years later, still there, they look back and they feel sheepish, embarrassed at the way they acted.
You see, momentarily, scared by a leaf.
Another situation that you may face is sometimes lies are promoted by false religion, picked up on by the news media and spread.
Well, this can rattle some of our fellow witnesses.
They feel intimidated. They don't want to go out in the ministry, face that music.
Take an uncowering stand in the face of lies.
God's organization is depending on you to be an example to the faithful ones.
Or it is after occurs the branch committee might assign you to organize the relief work.
Or to shepherd those who suffered loss of home or family members' lives have been lost.
Intimidating face it, view it as the sound of a rustling leaf.
Well, how about this one? Some of you might become a member of the branch committee.
You say, oh, that seems like such a daunting responsibility.
It is. But with Jehovah's help, your anxiety will shrivel and be gone with the wind.
Well, now it's for a moment. Think of the personality of the Apostle Paul.
His life was like late autumn in a windstorm.
Leaves swirled around him. But not intimidated, he became a tower of strength, stabilizing all the brothers.
Become Paul to those in your branch territory, even as he imitated the Christ.
Please now turn with me to 1 Corinthians, excuse me, 2 Corinthians chapter 1.
Let's look at an example of a frightening situation that Paul faced and how he gave all credit to Jehovah and the prayers of others.
2 Corinthians 1 starting in verse 8.
It says, for we do not want you to be unaware brothers of the tribulation we experience in the province of Asia.
We were under extreme pressure beyond our own strength so that we were very uncertain even of our lives.
In fact, we felt that we had received the sentence of death.
This was so that we would trust not in ourselves, but in the God who raises up the dead.
Paul thought the only way out of this situation would be my resurrection.
Verse 10.
From such great risk of death he did rescue us and will rescue us.
And our hope is in him that he will also continue to rescue us.
You also can help us by your supplications for us.
What were the circumstances that were so dreadful?
Turn to Acts chapter 19.
Some Bible scholars feel it was the riot and emphasis.
Now you recall those who were making shrines for the goddess Artemis.
They thought that they were going to lose their business because of the preaching of Paul and his companions.
So pick it up with me in Acts 19, 29 and 30.
It says, so the city became filled with confusion and altogether they rushed into the theater,
dragging along with them gays and areas of Tarkas, Macedonians, traveling companions of Paul.
What was Paul intimidated by this mob?
Verse 30.
For his part, Paul was willing to go inside to the people.
But the disciples would not permit him.
Well then verse 34 says that for two solid hours they shouted,
great is Artemis, the goddess of Ephesus, great is Artemis, the goddess of Ephesus, two hours.
What an intimidating circumstance.
But Paul handled it like a leaf in the wind.
But you remember in 2 Corinthians 1 it said,
we felt that we had received the sentence of death.
So there's another possibility that might be more in keeping with the gravity of Paul's words.
And this has to do when Paul was defending the resurrection.
1 Corinthians 1532.
You remember he said, if like other men,
I have fought wild beasts in Ephesus of what good is it to me.
So it may be that Paul actually faced wild beasts in the stadium in Ephesus,
terrifying indeed.
If so, he gave all credit to Jehovah for his rescue.
We certainly hope you won't be facing wild beasts anytime soon.
But the point is that after that harrowing experience was put in the past,
Paul viewed it as a sound of a leaf.
He moved on.
He gave all credit to Jehovah and the prayers of others.
And actually when we face and go through a harrowing,
maybe an intimidating circumstance,
it actually gives us more and more confidence in Jehovah for future events.
And as that would Paul said, remember he said,
from such a great risk of death he did rescue me.
But then with full confidence he said, and will rescue me.
And our hope is in him that he will also continue to rescue us.
Well, we will make supplication that Jehovah continue with you,
the 138th class of Gilead.
And no matter what you face in your future assignments,
become an example to the faithful ones.
And do not.
Do not be frightened by the sound of a leaf.
I'm sure we all appreciated those very interesting descriptions for us.
Well, the next part of our program involves a talk by a member of the governing body,
Brother Mark Sanderson.
And he has an intriguing title for his talk.
What are you looking for?
This is a very important question,
because what you're looking for will greatly affect
what you will find.
A fundamental truth is stated in the Bible at Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 12.
It says there,
expectation postponed is making the heart sick.
Well, that's how some people go through their whole life,
really feeling heart sick, feeling disappointed and why.
Well, people often look for things,
they're focused on goals,
and try to achieve them that are very unrealistic,
or that are not truly worthwhile.
The Pew Center for Research asked a group of 18 to 25-year-olds
what was the most important goal of their generation?
More than 80% said getting rich.
The second answer was getting famous.
Well, most of those people were looking for something
that they would never find.
They were going to end up disappointed.
So, what are you looking for?
Now, it's interesting that in essence this is the question
that Jesus posed to the crowds concerning John the baptizer in Luke chapter 7.
Now, here in Luke chapter 7 and verse 24,
you'll see about midway down through the verse,
Jesus posed this question.
He said,
what did you go out into the wilderness to see?
A read being tossed by the wind?
Well, now one reference work regarding this verse says
that the region of the country in which John preached
produced great quantities of reads or canes
of a light fragile nature that were easily shaken by the wind.
This, therefore, became an image of a light changing in constant man.
Well, some people love that, don't they?
They love a circular reasoning that just goes around and around,
never comes to any solid conclusion.
Now, if that's what the people were looking for,
when they went out to see John,
some wishy-washy philosopher,
they were going to be very much disappointed.
John was nothing like that.
He was a strong man with a solid message.
He was not a read blowing in the wind.
He was firm.
He was stable.
He was upright.
Well, then what did Jesus ask next?
Luke chapter 7, verse 25.
He says, what then did you go out to see?
A man dressed in soft garments?
Why those wearing splendid dress and living in luxury are in royal houses?
Well, that's what some people like, isn't it?
They want to see someone who has a very, very impressive appearance.
Well, if the Jews who went out to see John
were looking for a man that would be in a luxurious palace,
wearing splendid dress, well, again,
they were going to be very disappointed.
You remember John's garment?
What was it made of?
Camels hair.
In fact, one reference work says,
it was a rough, harsh,
the very cheapest kind of material.
And what was John eating?
Well, his diet was locusts and wild honey,
hardly a palace.
Well, then what did Jesus say next in verse 26?
Really, then, what did you go out to see?
A prophet?
Yes, I tell you, and far more than a prophet.
Well, those who went out to see a prophet,
they were not going to be disappointed.
In fact, John was even more than what such ones were expecting.
He was the forerunner of the Messiah,
the one who would teach people Jehovah's ways
and introduce them to the Lamb of God
who would take away the sins of the world.
Honest-hearted people who were looking for the Messiah
and who wanted to do the will of Jehovah
would not be disappointed by this experience.
This is exactly what they were looking for.
Well, now, brothers, what's the lesson here for us?
As Gilead students, you're about to graduate today.
You're about to go on to your assignments.
What are you looking for?
And what are you going to see?
Well, no doubt when you came,
you had certain expectations about what Gilead would be like.
What your training would be like.
And even about what your assignments would be.
What if you were expecting that Gilead would bring you
a certain measure of prominence,
or even a certain measure of prestige?
Well, no doubt you're going to be greatly disappointed.
And why do we say that?
Well, let's look at what Jesus said here at Luke chapter 12
and verse 48.
Luke chapter 12 and verse 48.
Jesus said,
Indeed, looking at about the middle of the verse,
indeed, everyone to whom much was given,
much will be demanded of him.
And the one who was put in charge of much
will have more than usual demanded of him.
Well, that's really the reality of it.
Instead of gaining more prestige or prominence,
from now on, you may find that people are going to expect
even more of you.
They're going to watch your example.
They're going to listen to the talks that you give.
They're going to look at what you accomplish in the ministry.
And you know, brothers, what we would like is for them to look at you
and say,
Oh, that brother or that sister went through Gilead.
And not that brother went through Gilead.
We want your training to be a blessing to you and to the brothers
and sisters in the field.
And I have to say the governing body has truly been delighted
with the level of maturity and experience of the students
who've been coming to Gilead and of the wonderful work
that all of you have been accomplishing or has been accomplished
and we know you're going to accomplish when you get to your assignments.
Well, what if you were expecting an enlarged assignment?
It could happen some of you may get an enlarged assignment.
But the reality is most of you are going to return to the assignment
that you had before.
However, what if when you came to hear to Gilead,
you were expecting to use your training to help honest-hearted people
to grow spiritually, to help them to learn the things that you are taught,
to love them and to support them so that they can endure the trials
that they're facing right now and the trials that they're going to have to face in the future,
to assist them, to strengthen their faith just as you have had your faith
strengthen here during the program.
Well, if that's what you were looking for,
if that's what you were expecting, you will not be disappointed.
You're going to find a bumper crop of honest-hearted people who need your love,
who need your faith, who need your friendship.
And as you work hard to help them, you're going to fulfill the real purpose
of your coming to Gilead to strengthen and to stabilize the field and branch organization.
So remember, what you are looking for will greatly affect what you're going to find.
Ask yourself, what am I really looking for?
Look to be the humble servant of your brothers and sisters
and do the very best you can to accomplish the will of Jehovah.
And then you will never be disappointed with what you find.
Thank you so much, Brother Sanderson, for that very interesting talk.
And now we all know what we should be looking for.
Well, next on our program, you're going to hear from one of our instructors
from the Theocratic Schools Department.
And Brother James Cuthan is going to talk to us on the theme, Feed the Hungry.
It has been said that there's more hunger for love and appreciation in this world
than there is for bread.
I'm sure every one of us can think of a time when a dear brother or dear sister
said just the right words of encouragement or commendation to us.
And we felt so uplifted, why it was if our spirit soared.
Why? Why does it have that effect on us?
It has that effect because every human needs to feel love, recognition,
and appreciation.
Everyone, everyone that lives now, everyone that ever lived needs to feel it.
And that included the perfect man Jesus.
Open your Bibles, please, to this special occasion that is recorded for us in Matthew chapter 3.
And you will recognize this as the events surrounding Jesus' baptism.
Jesus now would embark upon a three and a half year ministry.
And it would be a very special time, but a crucial time in his life.
He would face opposition.
He would face persecution. He would face temptation from the devil.
And it would end in a magnetizing death.
He knew that. And so did Jehovah.
What did Jehovah do for his son?
Read along with me verses 16 and 17.
Matthew chapter 3.
It says, after being baptized, Jesus immediately came up from the water and look.
The heavens were opened up.
And he saw God's spirit descending like a dove and coming upon him.
Look, also a voice from the heavens said,
This is my son, the beloved, whom I have approved.
What do you think that meant to Jesus?
To have the heavens opened up and his perfect mind now recalls his pre-human existence.
And then, then for the first time of only three times,
God's own voice is heard by a human.
And what does he say?
He says, This is my son, the beloved.
I have approved.
What did that mean to Jesus?
Knowing that Jesus had his father's love and approval,
he could face opposition and criticism with courage and with confidence.
And knowing that he had his father's love and approval,
he could maintain balance and emotional stability even in the face of death.
You see, all of us are strengthened by kind words of commendation.
In fact, this graduation program itself is an opportunity for governing body members,
and their helpers, and your instructors to offer you students a sincere, well done.
Of course, there would be no greater blessing than to know that we have Jehovah's approval.
And Jehovah wants us to know that we do.
We know he does because of what he inspired David to write.
These very encouraging words found in Psalm, the fifth Psalm, actually.
Chapter 5 and verse 12.
He writes, For you will bless anyone righteous, so Jehovah,
you will surround them with approval as with a large shield.
A large shield. A large shield of approval.
A large shield would cover the whole person.
A large shield would protect the whole body.
And that's what we need.
We need a large shield to protect us from all of Satan's burning missiles.
But how does Jehovah provide that?
He provides it through his word, of course, through his organization, through his Holy Spirit.
But there's also another very important way.
And that is encapsulated in a Bible principle that's found in Proverbs chapter 3.
You can read it in verse 27.
Proverbs 3, 27 says, Do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it,
if it is within your power to help.
It's within your power.
Jehovah has given the ability to do good to others to you.
It's in your hand.
You can encourage others.
Kind words are so easy to speak, and yet words have power.
Words can change lives, move hearts, inspire hope.
We are surrounded by a world that's increasingly self-centered, fault-finding, and thankless.
Our brothers and sisters need to feel love and appreciate it.
They need to be sincerely commended.
And when we do that, we uplift them, we encourage them, and praise helps all of us to do our very best.
So, do you want to be a strengthening aid to your brothers?
Appreciate them.
Do you want to motivate and encourage others?
Approve them.
Do you want to build others up in their self-worth, their self-esteem, their self-confidence?
Applaud them.
Do you want to strengthen the warmth and security and appreciation among your fellow Bethel family members?
And in your congregation, acknowledge them.
Train yourself to look for the good and others, and then freely give voice to the positive.
Remember, Jehovah sees even the tiniest of effort in his service, and he counts it as an act of worship.
A sincere word of commendation will let our brothers know that someone cares, a notice, and that what they did was worth the effort.
Seek once all of God's people to feel unworthy and unloved.
Do not let that happen to your brothers. Feed the hungry.
Use what you've learned in the last five months to counteract the schemes of the devil.
Use the power given you to strengthen God's organization to create a sense of belonging, of being a part of the greatest family on the face of the earth.
Build up the brotherhood.
You can do it one person at a time.
Give attention to each one, young and old, each brother, each sister, each youth, every child.
Help all to feel Jehovah's love and approval.
By all means, feed the hungry.
Do it zealously. Do it with generous amounts of love and sincere commendation.
And you will be a constant source of strength and encouragement to others.
You will be happier. You will be successful in your assignment.
And most important of all, you will be imitating our God Jehovah, who generously expresses his approval for all of his faithful servants.
For Brother Kothan, it would be negligent on my part if I didn't say, well done.
So I was listening.
And we appreciate very much those reminders.
Well, the next speaker on our program is Brother Mark de Mare.
As you realize, as one of your Gilead instructors, Brother de Mare has selected a very intriguing theme for his discussion.
It's good to the last drop.
As a chosen vessel, the Apostle Paul suffered for Christ's name.
And yet after some 30 years of spiritual warfare, he writes his friends.
And he sums up what defined his life.
He sums up, this is who I am. This is what I am all about.
Listen to what he reveals at Philippians chapter 2 and verse 17.
Philippians 2, 17. However, even if I'm being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice,
and the Holy service to which your faith has led you, I am glad.
And I rejoice with you, pouring himself out, like a drink offering, and then says, I am glad.
It's as if Paul was saying, I've received great satisfaction in pouring myself out for others.
It was worth it. It was worth going the extra mile.
It was worth being completely spent in behalf of kingdom interests.
Anyone can give the minimum. Anyone can get by with doing the basics.
But not Paul. Why? Because of the payoff.
Verse 18. In the same way, you also should be glad and rejoice with me.
Paul understood that his example of himself pouring himself out, not only honored Jehovah God,
but it strengthened others and encouraged others so that they too could reevaluate their motives for serving God.
So Paul never quit. He loved pouring himself out in behalf of kingdom interests.
It's who he was. In fact, as we will see in our discussion, he was good to the last drop.
Now let's rewind, Paul's life. After his baptism, he goes into Arabia.
No doubt to find a quiet place where he could meditate on the scriptures, think deeply about spiritual things reflect on what proved Jesus to be the Messiah.
This would prepare him for his future work and his commission.
After his time in Arabia, then he goes into the regions of Syria and Selisia.
He evidently experienced many hardships during these very early years, such as being in prison, mistreated, beaten with rods and shipwrecked more than once.
All of this before he began his missionary career.
But he didn't reason. If this is what it means to be a chosen vessel for Christ, I quit.
I'm done with this. All of this suffering for what? No. He didn't adopt that attitude.
Paul was determined to pour himself out. Come what may.
What about you? In your early years, you too have endured hardships and trials for Christ. We know that.
Some of you even as teenagers had to struggle and wrestle to stay with the truth. We know that.
That's why we love you and appreciate you so much. You did not quit.
You paid a price to sit in those seats at Gilead. Those seats were not free.
The only free seats were the photodrama of creation. You didn't get free seats.
In fact, the price tag on those seats were your loyalty, your love, your devotion, your integrity,
your endurance for Jehovah God and his Theocratic organization.
And your Arabia? Your Arabia has been Gilead school.
A place that has enabled you to think deeply on how God's Word affects your feelings for your Heavenly Father.
And because of this divine education, you are now prepared to continue to pour yourselves out in support of Jehovah God
as Theocratic organization and Kingdom interest.
To even a greater extent, your Arabia has prepared you for the work ahead.
Well, let's go back to Paul and see what lessons his life can now teach you.
After Arabia, after his previous trials in Syria, Paul continues to please Jehovah by pouring himself out into the missionary work
not an easy task. He only had Matthew's gospel as an inspired writing in the Christian era.
So Paul had to hammer out problems regarding unrepentant wrongdoers and marriage and singleness and, oh,
there was the matter of circumcision.
But what does this have to do with Paul pouring himself out to the last drop?
Let's find out.
The question was, should Gentile Christians be circumcised?
The issue persisted for 13 years.
Now, in the year 49, CE, the matter finally goes to the governing body in Jerusalem.
Imagine how Paul anticipated this day.
Recommendations were submitted. The issue was in the hands of the right people.
Now, Paul can participate in the discussion. The congregations are a buzz.
And now, the decision is made.
In Acts chapter 15 and verse 23, here it is, very clear.
Everyone's focused on this decision. Verse 23, the apostles and the elders, your brothers,
and anti-oxerians, who are from the nations,
who are from the nations, that is Gentile Christians.
The decision, according to Acts chapter 15, is you Gentile Christians from the nations.
You do not need to be circumcised. Good.
But what about Jewish Christians?
You see, the decision had not specifically covered that aspect of the question.
So some Jewish Christians kept insisting that it was necessary to be circumcised in order to be saved.
Now, Paul could have reasoned if the brothers could have made my work a lot easier
if they just made the call that it was not a requirement for Jewish Christians to get circumcised.
That's all they would have had to have done.
But the issue dragged on for years.
Why did Jehovah and Christ let it play out this way?
We don't know, but what we do know, and here's the lesson for you, Paul did not complain.
Paul did not stop working.
Rather, Paul went on record by writing powerful letters to the congregations demonstrating
his backing in support of the governing body's decision.
What an example we want you to learn.
How does it apply?
No, you're not inspired to write letters, but by your speech, your attitude, your conduct,
you'll go on record as to where you stand in support of the governing body's decisions.
Will you always understand the reasons behind why a certain decision was made?
Merger of branches, adjustments to Bethel Department's decisions regarding resources or personnel
or why a situation is allowed to continue.
Probably not.
But whether you are a brother, sister, married, single,
each one of you have this unique opportunity as a Gilead graduate to pour yourself out
as a drink offering in support of the decisions that are made.
Now, that is an offering that Jehovah God is well pleased to accept.
Let's move forward in time.
Now, Paul for years is pouring his heart and soul into his missionary work,
which included near-death experiences, even as was explained by Brother Flo Dean.
Now, he finishes his third missionary tour.
He barely escaped with his life from that frenzied mob and emphasis and a plot to kill him in Corinth.
Imagine what his life was like, pouring himself out constantly in his missionary career.
And yet a big test still awaits him.
This time, it comes from headquarters.
He comes to Jerusalem after his third missionary tour.
He's relating these encouraging experiences to the brothers.
And now, what happens instead of putting a wreath on his head after his third tour?
They listen to his experiences and in chapter 21 and in verse 21 of the book of Acts,
what do they do?
21, 21.
We have heard it rumored about you that you are teaching all the Jews among the nations
and apostasy from Moses.
All that he did, Paul, we hear rumors about you.
What you're saying about the law, some brothers think we might lack respect from Moses and our spiritual heritage.
So, Paul, this is what we counsel you.
You do this.
You take four Jewish Christians, go to the temple in order to complete their vow.
So, everyone, verse 24, everyone will know that there's nothing to the rumors they are told about you.
How could he have responded here?
Now, wait.
Rumors about me?
I just finished three missionary tours.
I'm pouring myself out for the truth.
I almost get killed in Ephesus.
My sacrifice seems unappreciated and my good work is not acknowledged.
Rumors about me?
I'm the problem.
No.
The problem is those Jewish believers in the Mosaic law.
Go tell them that the law was nailed to the stake in 33 CE.
And then have them read my letter to the Romans where I proved we're not under the law.
When he could have mumbled under his breath.
And if we fixed this back in 49, we wouldn't even be talking about.
But, Paul did not take that stand.
This is the point.
He didn't take that posture.
Again, he cooperates with the brothers taking the lead.
Why?
Because he realizes that even if he was misunderstood, it's his loyalty, his obedience and his respect for theocratic order,
that was part of his sacrifice.
That was his drink offering that he was pouring out that he knew would gain Jehovah God's smile of approval.
That's what defined him.
That was Paul.
So, when you go through difficulties, your motives are brought to the fore.
You might feel you're not appreciated at times.
Your hard work might not be recognized.
Or a decision that is made might cause you inconvenience.
Or at times, even something might seem inconsistent with your sense of justice.
And when it does, you must realize you're not seeing things the way Jehovah sees it.
Apply the Bible principles that you learned in school and watch them work.
Why does Jehovah God use an eagle as a symbol of divine wisdom?
Why?
Because of the eagle's amazing ability to see into the future.
Likewise, or see into the distance.
Likewise, Jehovah God, in a similar sense, sees far into the distance.
So, he can allow a situation to develop that you might not fully understand.
It's under such circumstances that you yourself show yourself to be a spiritual person by continuing to pour yourself out in support of the Kingdom work.
Next, Paul goes into custody, shipped off to Rome, stands trial before Caesar.
After two years, he's released.
Is it time for him to relax?
Does he live a normal life?
No. He pushes on.
He resumes his missionary service.
It's the Kingdom work that defines his life.
Shortly before his death, he writes his last letter.
He tells Timothy, I'm being poured out like a drink offering.
He says it again.
I've run the race to the finish.
During the twilight of his life, Paul is still going.
He was good to the last drop.
Like Paul, your willingness to pour yourselves out on behalf of the Kingdom,
behalf of the interests of Jehovah God, shows that your desire to please Jehovah and Christ is what defines you.
What do you want to remember?
This.
One, keep going back to Arabia to immerse yourself in God's Word.
Two, go on record by standing in support of Jehovah God and his faithful and discrete slave.
And three, when you're dried up with nothing else to give,
beg Jehovah to replenish your desire to pour yourself out into his work
and may he strengthen each and every one of you to be good to the last drop.
Thank you very much, brother Numer, for pouring yourself into that talk.
And we certainly hope you know where near your last drop.
But we appreciated the fine, interesting comments in that talk as well.
But we've had a wonderful start to our program.
There's been all sorts of interesting things already we've discussed.
But now's an opportunity for us to sing another song.
And just two things before we stand to sing the song.
First of all, we'd like to mention to you and also to those who will be watching this on JW Broadcasting
that will still be a few more weeks before the sheet music and the songs are uploaded.
So for those watching via JW Broadcasting, listen carefully.
For those of us here, keep your copy of the songs.
The second thing I want to mention is how wonderful the singing was for the first song.
It was just so encouraging to hear that beautiful song, song so beautifully.
Well, now's the opportunity for us to stand.
Most of us here probably are either pioneers or have pioneered.
And we're going to sing song 140, the life of a pioneer, song 140.
If you'd like to be seated again, it was beautiful.
It's to express how we feel about the pioneer work.
Well, the next part of our program involves experiences that the students have had.
So we look forward to one of the Gilead instructors, Brother Michael Burnett,
and the theme that he's selected for this interview of the experiences
using the language of the heart being alert.
That was so tough.
It was.
I still can't understand the difference between compassion and empathy.
Yeah, in English, just the same to me.
I don't know the difference.
David, I hope I know how to show kindness,
but writing the definition on a piece of paper, that's really difficult.
All right.
I knew I'd find you in the library.
How's everyone?
Well, brother Burnett.
How was the written exercise?
Oh, it was a little bit tricky.
Really?
I'm trying to forget it.
I wrote the right answer for the wrong question.
It happens.
You know, brother Burnett, if that exercise were in our language,
own language, that would be much more easy.
I mean, you're saying if you were in Russian, you'd do better.
Why not?
Okay.
It reminds me of the lecture we had yesterday regarding the tongue of the heart
and how people do much better when you speak their language to convey the truth.
And that's true, brother Burnett, because I had a very nice experience with Russian woman.
I would like to show you.
Da.
Hello, a learner.
It's lovely to see you again.
This is my friend Anura.
Hello, my name is Anura.
Oh, !
-!
,      ?
.
You found a person who is speaking Russian.
Isn't it lovely to talk to someone in the language of your heart?
Yes.
It's a call to the outside coming.
Thank you.
Thank You.
You know, I don't have much time because I need to pay a lunch.
Oh, don't worry.
It will not take too much.
But by the way, what are you doing here?
You know, the thing that we are invited to Bible school, and there are a lot of people
from different countries in our class, for example, from 29 countries.
Wow, yes, and the purpose of the school is to teach us the Bible so that we could speak
with people about God.
Oh, you know, actually I don't believe in God as a person.
I know there is something who is great power.
Maybe we were brought here from different planets.
I'd like to watch some program about the universe.
Maybe I will believe in God if I see him.
Very interesting.
Folks, thank you very much for sharing that, but look around you.
Everything was created, but people create things too.
Yes, you're right, they create, but what do they use?
They think they are already created by someone.
Oh, I understand.
And you want to say that all things created by God.
You know what?
As you said that you like to watch some films about the universe and so on.
I have a book, it's called, is there a creator that cares about us?
And this book contains so much scientific information.
I like this book very much, it's so interesting, and I can find it in Russian and bring it
to you.
Yeah, it's good.
What time do you want me to bring it?
Any afternoon will be okay.
So next Sunday afternoon, is it okay?
Yeah.
That's good.
Thank you.
See you.
Nice to know.
The tongue of the heart.
How nice.
So were you able to take the creator book back in Russian?
Not that week, as I promised, but I found in Russian Bible, and I took that book in English
and brought her.
And when I found it in Russian, I visited her and apologized, explained why it took
to a long time.
And I said that since I'm in English congregation, I had to ask brothers and sisters from Russian
congregation.
So when she heard that there is people that are speaking in Russian, she wanted to go
to the meeting.
I didn't even invite her.
That is very nice.
Very nice.
Very persistent, consistent, and you spoke the tongue of the heart.
Well done.
Yes.
And that was very interesting.
And you know Brother Brunette?
Gwen also has a very nice experience.
Really?
When the brothers found out that I was assigned to the Piquitzi area, they sent me two territories
with Albanian addresses.
Good.
And one morning, we've been doing the addresses, and we haven't found anybody in.
Finally, we met a woman, but she said she wasn't Albanian, but it turned out well.
I'd like to see you.
Hello.
Oh, hi.
Can I just ask you a question, please?
Are there any Albanians living in this block?
In this block?
No.
No Albanians.
Oh, that's such a shame.
Why?
Well, I've lived in Albania for 12 years, and I was so hoping to meet an Albanian family,
especially with the subject that we were talking about today.
What's that about?
Happiness.
I mean, we all want to be happy, don't we?
And even if we are happy, we want to be happy yet.
But maybe I can ask you, what do you think are some of the keys that can help us find
true happiness today?
True happiness.
Hmm.
A good family, a nice job, perhaps?
Those things are important.
And I know while I was in Albania, I noticed that for the Albanians, the family was something
very important, trying to keep them close together, but today it's not easy, especially
with the fact that many have to leave the country to maybe work abroad.
But we were highlighting some principles from the holy scriptures from our creator that
can help us to find even more happiness today.
You know, I said to you that there are no Albanians here, but actually I'm Albania.
That's wonderful.
But I don't speak any of Albania, I'm country, sorry.
Don't worry.
I have the magazines in English as well.
Really?
Yeah.
It's speaking about keys to family happiness.
I'm sure you'd really enjoy eating it.
And I ask you, what part of Albania do you come from?
I'm from Ulcin, Montenegro.
Oh, it's beautiful there.
I love the beaches I've been.
Yeah.
Do you have families still there?
My entire family is there.
You know, I'm alone in the United States.
Oh, it must be very difficult being such a long way away from your family.
Yeah, it is.
I'm sorry, I never introduced myself.
My name's Gwen.
Can I ask your name?
Afredita.
Oh, Afredita.
Nice to meet you.
Lovely meeting you.
I'll be back in the area again.
And I'd love to show you something so positive for the future that God's promised us, that
can touch us and our families.
Is the morning all the afternoon better?
Usually, afternoon is better for me.
OK, I'll try next Sunday afternoon.
Looking forward to it.
OK, bye-bye.
Good for you, Gwen.
Thank you.
Very nice.
And the nice thing is that you got to talk to her in the tongue of the heart.
English.
That's right.
Yeah.
So you've been able to call back?
That's, I tried a couple of times.
She was quite hard to find in, but I did get a good result.
I'll show you again.
Let's see.
Gwen, what?
Good, Dita.
How are you?
Good, good.
Fine, thank you.
You know, you're very fortunate to find me at home.
I was just getting ready to go out.
I appreciate that because I try quite a few times, so I know you're a really busy person.
But have you got five minutes for me to show you that interesting point?
Sure.
I brought a little brochure with me that's entitled Good News from God, and I've got a
copy for you as well.
Thank you.
OK.
And if we have a read of the first paragraph together, what strikes you as being something
that's good news?
Well, the last sentence is, you will relieve mankind of the causes of suffering.
That sounds very good.
That's something that we need, don't we?
Yes.
But how do we know that it's God that's promised us that?
If you notice here, there's a scripture, and I'll show you what it says.
It's Jeremiah 29, verse 11.
So after reading that, what does God promise us?
A future and a hope.
That's right.
Isn't that wonderful to think that our creator has promised that for us?
But how is he going to bring it about?
Because it's something so different from what we see today.
The next paragraph tells us, but you said you only had five minutes.
Yes.
I'll leave the brochure for you to read by yourself.
And then next Sunday, I'll come again, and I'll show you what the scriptures say on
the subject.
OK.
Sounds great.
That's all I asked for.
Thank you.
Good reasoning, Gwen.
Very nice.
So what is her progress now?
Well, I managed to start a study with Aphrodita, and she also wanted her mum to know about
it as well.
I mentioned that I was here at Patterson, and she said she'd actually visited Patterson
when she was a little girl, but she can't remember much about it.
So I've invited her to come, and she's going to come with her mother as well.
Good.
Can you bring her around like a meter?
I'd love that.
That's great.
And she also asked, when I go back to Albania, could I give her my Albanian telephone
number so that her mum can keep in contact with me because she's in Toronto, too?
What a nice experience.
Thank you.
Mireille, I'm just going to print up those references for the next lesson.
I'll do a copy for you as well.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mireille.
See you in class, OK?
See you.
So, Mireille, I understand that you found someone who speaks Arabic.
Yes, I did.
It was two Lebanese men who work in a daddy.
Now, a local sister had been taking the magazines in Arabic.
Once she took me with her, and when I went, the conversation just started up naturally
because we speak the same language.
But the store was busy at that time, so we just gave them two magazines.
One of them, his name is Khalid, he took them.
And we promised to return.
I did return with a couple from the congregation.
We also had lunch.
You know, you can't resist the food.
But we also, I had in mind one article that is interesting for people from our area.
And I got it ready, and I was waiting for a good time to talk to him.
Can I show you what happened?
Thank you.
This article, I think it's interesting for people from our area.
What do you think?
Will we ever have one government for the whole world?
One government?
Yes.
I don't think so.
Why not?
What if this government will be bad?
Yes.
You're all right.
That would be harmful.
But what if God is the one who got that government?
Wouldn't that be good for us?
This is a good idea.
Actually, this is the message that we preach.
And as you can see here, this message is found in God's Word.
God's prophets wrote about it.
And both of us, Muslims and Christians, we believe that God will act at one time, that He gave us signs for that time when He will act.
And if we look around us now with all the problems, don't you think that this time might be now?
Yes.
You're right.
Okay.
Customers have come in.
I don't want to keep.
You will continue later.
Wow.
That was really good, but I am well done.
Well done.
Very good.
Well, what a lovely meal that was.
Should I go and get the car and I'll bring it out and pick up your girls?
Okay.
I'll try to wrap up and then I'll meet you.
I'll get the car.
Thank you.
May I have a box for the leftovers, please?
Yes.
Thank you.
You know, I really enjoyed when witnesses come here.
They always do.
And I think you are good people.
Thank you.
Thank you, Card.
And a small truck.
They sent me from Canada after dining here.
Oh, that's nice.
Ah, yes.
Distracted advertising is our website.
Yes, I'm agree.
Witnesses are good people.
I used to live in Michigan.
And I know that one couple who became believers and witnesses helped them.
You know, living according to God's word and listening to Him improves our lives.
Because can you imagine, for example, if a father is an alcoholic and then the Bible God's
help helps him to overcome his addiction, how much would that help his family?
Wouldn't their lives improve so much?
Yes, it will.
Exactly.
So when will you come to study Bible with me?
Well, I can return with my brothers maybe next week, but we won't take too much of your time
because this is our workplace.
Okay.
Thank you.
Wow.
That's incredible.
All of you are starting Bible studies.
I know the store owners are busy.
So what's the progress of this call?
Well, when I returned the next time, the chef, Haile, turned out to have read our books back in Lebanon.
But because of the workload, he finds it hard to study.
So we agreed that we would just only take 10 minutes every week just to do a quick discussion.
And then that's what we've been trying to do.
Progress in the tongue of the heart.
Good for you.
Thank you.
I know, even when you can't speak the language of the heart,
learning a few greetings and introduction in the language of the people can make a lot of difference.
That's true.
I remember when I was here, one of the Saturdays, the brothers told me that we'll be preaching in a territory that has some Spanish-speaking families.
I can't speak Spanish, but I thought of learning a few greetings and introduction in Spanish.
Nice.
This is what happened in my room.
Thank you.
That morning, while I was getting ready for the field service, I decided to learn greetings in Spanish.
I started with pulling up the JW language app, JW language app, and I started with hello in Spanish.
Now, how do I say hello?
Hola.
That I also thought of, my name is.
My name is.
Me llamo.
Mijamo.
Oh.
Me llamo.
Okay.
I think I'm good.
Very good.
So, that's great, Dave.
So, with a confidence of each other,
So, with the confidence of the JW language app, I went out in the field ministry that morning and you can't believe it.
Right on the sidewalk, a man walked by using what I learned with the JW language app.
I was able to start a Bible study right there.
This is what I learned.
He looks Spanish.
Is it Spanish?
What?
What are you looking at?
Hola.
Comestas.
Bien.
Mayama David.
A blue standing glass.
CC, I do speak English.
Wow.
I have a message from God for you.
Hmm.
I know God.
But what is the message about?
God wants you to be his friend.
Interesting.
But how is that possible?
Wow.
I'll show you.
Here in the Bible, it is 6th chapter 12 by 13.
Do you mind reading?
No.
I can read.
Okay.
The conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is, feel the true God and keep his commandments.
For this is the whole obligation of man.
Wonderful.
If you notice carefully, there are two expressions.
One, fear the true God.
Two, keep his commandments.
If you are able to do this, God will be so real to you that he will become a friend.
Interesting.
But fear God, be close to him.
We cannot see God.
I agree with you.
And most people have had this discussion with, they feel the same way.
You can't see God.
How can you fear him?
As Jehovah's Witnesses, we have a program that can help.
We call it Bible Study.
Here is a Bible Study Earth.
What does the Bible really teach?
If you look at the table of content, you will notice that there are like 19 chapters.
And all these chapters were prepared to help you draw clues to God, even when you can't see Him.
Have a look.
I would like to know this answer.
Why does God allow suffering?
Wow, that seems to be a subject of the heart for you.
I would have loved to demonstrate how this Bible Study program works.
But you know we are on the sidewalk.
How about this?
I keep it there to you.
Next week, just about this time, 3 p.m. but at your home.
Then I'll demonstrate this Bible Study for you.
How about that?
Okay, you can come.
My house is that house, white house number 138.
Oh, 138.
Okay, so by next week, by Saturday, 3 p.m., I will be at your home.
And then we will have a Bible Study.
Like I said, my name is David.
My name is Haul.
Hasta la vista.
Muito gracias.
That was very good.
Very nice, David.
So that language, really, has proven to be a blessing.
Yes, it was really a wonderful blessing.
I had confidence.
And like we promised Raul, we went back next Saturday and wanted to demonstrate a Bible Study
where you can't believe it.
Raul was waiting.
His wife, his mother, who can speak English and his two children.
We demonstrated the Bible Study for Raul.
But we noticed all of them were so interested in a Bible study.
They were so excited.
And then we decided to have a Bible study for each one of them.
And today, all five of them are regular Bible students.
That's incredible.
Good for you.
You're over-splashing.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Hello, hello, friends.
You were still here.
It's time for Brassam Lawson to begin his class.
Brassam Lawson?
Yes.
Sorry.
I'm out of time.
Thank you.
OK, see you.
See you.
Hi, Brassam Lawson.
Who do you think?
I mean, who are you?
You have a very well-entry speaking nowadays.
Try it.
I think we should go to Ghana.
I do.
That's good.
So how are things?
Oh, everything is fine, Brassam Lawson.
Well, there's some interest being discussed here.
Yes, we were talking about the language of the heart
and each one of these students speaks it for a night.
Oh, sorry.
Oh, good.
Discussing about something?
Yeah, we're just talking about the students
who went back to Brassam Lawson's class.
We're talking about the studies they've started in the language of the heart, the languages
they speak.
Interesting.
Robert, you know, speaking of language of the heart, I didn't go to this experience like
that.
But I had a similar one, being a lead and prepared with magazines on hand, even in a coffee
shop.
Really?
I saw a gentleman passing, and I detected that he guessed that the magazine, I used that
opportunity.
You want to see what happened?
Good.
This will be a nice picture.
Nice.
Another one.
Good afternoon, gentlemen.
Good afternoon.
Oh, you can see for your life, I can take a picture of you, if you like.
Amazing.
Thanks for that.
Oh, what a nice picture.
You are welcome.
Thank you very much.
By the way, have you pleased head of a government soon to come?
That is free of corruption?
No, I never heard about that.
Oh, I have that.
Look at this magazine.
A government free of corruption.
It features an article.
And based on March 26, verses 9 and 10, where he says, taught us to pray for God's kingdom
to come.
Look at six points.
That sets God's government clearly different from human rulership.
Power, ruler, stability, the next page, laws, motifs, and subjects.
I know you want to live in a society free of corruption, and you see the clear distinction
between human rulership and God's government.
So interesting.
Very take it.
I can see you are so much interested in the Bible discussion, and we want you to learn more
about the Bible.
This card will direct you to our website, JW.org, and you will have all your Bible questions
answered.
Thank you.
Where are you from?
We are from Ghana.
Oh, Ghana.
Yeah, we came here from the Bible school.
Yes.
Okay, Bible school?
What school?
Yes.
It's five months course.
To appreciate, understand, and apply the Bible in our lives, so we can also effectively teach
other people.
It's important.
Yes.
Is there any way we can get in contact with you so that this conversation can continue?
Yeah, sure.
I would like to.
Can I give you my phone number?
That would be excellent.
Okay.
This is my phone number.
That's my name.
David.
Good.
I'm Freeman Abe, and my wife is Miriam Agri.
Okay.
Good at any time.
Thank you very much, David.
Okay.
You can't, or an evening or something?
Even today.
No, I'm going somewhere, but if you like, you can call me by 4 p.m.
That would be excellent.
David.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
But that's it, Freeman.
That's it.
You were alert and prepared, and you paid off.
Yes.
So, what's the progress of this call?
Robert Nets, I called him that very evening, and we started studying the back of the magazine
about reasons for living in the existence of a creator, and believe it, we are studying
on phone.
Really?
That's amazing.
That's the idea of being alert.
It reminds me of an experience ahead with the sister from my congregation when I went
with her to a return visit.
Okay.
It was during the week of Halloween.
Would you like to see her?
Turned out?
Yes, please.
Hello.
Good morning.
I'm Sony, and this is my friend, Hugh.
Nice to meet you.
We spoke to your mother last week from the Bible, and she asked that we could come back
and continue in our conversation.
So we came to see her, please.
Oh, yes.
I remember that now.
I'm sorry.
I was sitting in at the moment.
She went out to church.
Okay.
I see.
Anywhere where she comes back.
Could you please stay here?
Yeah.
No problem.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Goodbye.
Nice meeting you.
Likewise.
Before we leave, I would like to show you a short video.
It's only three minutes long, and it has the title, Why Study the Bible?
Yeah, sure.
From the moment we can talk, we ask questions.
So what do you think of it?
Yeah.
That was a pretty interesting video.
As you can see, the Bible can help us find answers to questions we have in life.
For example, this week I've noticed people around us celebrating Halloween.
So it means they're thinking about their dead ones.
Have you ever wondered what hope is there for our family members or friends or that?
That's a good question.
I'd like to know more about that.
Well, you'd be very happy to know that the Bible gives an answer to that question.
I have with me this brochure, Good News from God.
When it's less than six, the title is what hope is there for the dead.
So I'll be very happy to come next Saturday morning to check with you what the Bible gives
as an answer to that question.
Yeah, that would be great.
Come.
Thanks.
Very, very quick thinking on your part, Hughes.
The thing I liked is that even though the original householder wasn't there, you took advantage
of the situation you were alert and prepared.
Very nice.
Yes, and you know, it turned out well because we studied the Bible study with him.
It's amazing.
After a few weeks, he gave me his phone number, which proved to be very helpful in this
cold winter because some Saturdays, we could not go out because of the storm and I could
conduct that study on the phone.
It's amazing the number of studies that have been started or conducted here.
And you know, Rachel had a similar experience with being alert.
Yeah, I was working with a sister who has a magazine, who's with a lady.
I would like to show you what happened.
Please.
How are you doing?
Good.
You are welcome.
Oh, thank you.
Today I'm with Rachel.
Rachel?
Christian.
Nice to meet you.
Rachel.
Thank you.
You know, we have some new issues of magazine and this is about a government free of corruption
and I'm sure you will enjoy it.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
Thank you.
I really read it later.
Okay.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
Bye.
I can see that you really like your friends.
Good friends warm the heart.
I too.
I too, Rachel.
Do you know that these words are similar with what is written in the Bible?
Really?
Yes.
Here.
In 1217.
17.
It says, a true friend shows love at all times and he's the brother who is born for times
of this way.
Hmm.
Rachel.
You know, nowadays it is not easy to find good friends.
People are no sincere.
We don't know who you can really trust.
That is true.
You are absolutely right.
The good thing is since the Bible speaks about two friends.
That means you can still find some who are really true friends.
But before that, why not ask ourselves how can I personally be such a true friend to others?
Hmm.
It is not easy, Rachel.
Really, to become such only the Bible can help you.
That's why when our men visit you again, not just limit yourself in taking matters, which is fine.
But take a few times each week to really study the Bible with her.
It will help you a lot.
I would like to study the Bible.
Oh, very nice.
And I would like you to come to study with me.
Okay.
Is it possible for you to come on Wednesday and I would like to give you my phone number.
Let me give you my phone number.
Sure.
Thank you so much.
What about Wednesday, 4 p.m. or in the morning?
It is okay in the afternoon.
Okay.
Good.
That's my phone number.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
You will see us on Wednesday.
Thank you, Rachel.
I'll see you.
Bye.
Bye-bye.
Very good.
You and your husband are quick thinkers.
And you know what I've been at.
The sister contacted me recently and she said the lady is studying the Bible with her.
Even with the opposition of her sons.
Huh.
It's amazing.
Several things I've learned from your students today and that is to be prepared, to be alert,
to be persistent, and to speak the tongue of the heart as I speak and teach.
Very nice.
Talking about speaking, we need to get back to class.
Thank you very much, Robinette.
That part of our program was brought to us by the developers of JW Language.
So we hope that encourages everyone to continue to use it.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Burnett.
That was a very interesting and encouraging part of our program.
Now we're going to get to know some of the students a little better.
Brother William Turner, who is a helper to the service committee of the governing body.
I will take the lead in interviewing some of the students.
And the theme is selected is keep contributing to the good news.
And Philippians chapter one, verses three through five.
The Apostle Paul was moved to give thanks to Jehovah for the brother and sisters in Philippa.
For their contributions to the good news.
Or as the footnote mentions for their furthering, the participation in furthering the good news.
And to those of you here in this class of Gilead, we too are very thankful for your contributions that you have made in furthering the good news.
And we're confident that as long as you continue, the Jehovah is going to bless your future efforts.
And I highlight this, we have the opportunity to speak with four of our students,
Sister Gwen Williams, Sister Rachel and Brother Hughes, Cabochua, and Brother Trent Edson.
And let's just start with Brother and Sister Cabochua.
Now you serve as couple family members in Congo.
And Sister Cabochua, you serve as one of the compositors.
Can you tell us a little bit as to what your work entails?
Composition is between translation and printing.
We make publications in the local languages look the same as the English publications with pictures and captions.
Very nice, sounds like a nice assignment.
Now you mentioned an experience that really highlighted why your work is so important to you. Can you share that with us?
Yes, one secret overseer told us that in their territory there is a man who knows witnesses for many years.
But refuses to study the Bible because he said God does not love them.
If he does, why should they study the Bible using publications in another language?
Now that the branch decided to translate some publication in that language,
such as listen to God and live forever brochure upon receiving his uncopy domain explain.
Now God has turned his attention to us so he's studying the Bible.
Very nice, really highlights the impact of learning one's language and the mother tongue, doesn't it?
Thank you for sharing that.
Brother, you serve as the secretary to the branch committee.
Can you tell us a little bit as to what your work entails?
Well, in general, it's paperwork.
But it also involves giving myself and my time to have these brothers of the branch committee have what they need to make appropriate decisions for the branch territory.
And I remember that it has happened because of emergencies in the country such as unrest or legal issues.
I had to work until late in the evening gathering the information they need to ask for direction from the governing body.
So because of that, I can say that my assignment is mainly a same day service.
Because if you wait until tomorrow, tomorrow will come with other emergencies and anxieties and the work we pile up.
And apart from that, there is also a lot of interaction between our office and brothers and sisters who come for questions or personal concerns.
So it gives me an opportunity to contribute to the good news by working for the joy of my brothers and sisters.
Because happy Bethelites are productive ones and productive Bethelites are a blessing for the whole branch territory.
Very true, very nice. And no doubt those happy Bethelites appreciate your same day service.
Also appreciate your sacrifice.
But that's a new serve as a Bethel family member in Australia.
But perhaps you can tell us, what was it that made you want to apply for a Bethel service?
I was originally pioneering maybe five or six years in my hometown.
I was enjoying the ministry, my work was good, employment was good as well.
I was very comfortable in what I was doing.
That was probably the problem. I eventually felt a little bit too comfortable.
Feller had to stretch myself a bit more.
Very interesting. So now if we understand you were less and that means that you were serving Jehovah.
You were doing quite well. You were already in full-time service.
But yet you still felt that you could contribute more.
He was. It was time to reach out.
Very interesting. Do you feel that Jehovah blessed your efforts?
Yeah, I've thoroughly enjoyed Bethel service.
I've served in the Australian branch for the last 12 years, seven years in the laundry.
The last five in the service department loved all of it.
Very nice. And thank you also for the nice reminder for us.
Not to become too comfortable in this system. Nice admonition.
Assist Williams says, we've heard you are serving in Albania.
You are at the Bethel there. You also feel missionary in Albania.
We know your origin is from England.
That's right.
That's quite a move.
So can you tell us what challenges you encountered by making such a move?
Well, I first decided to move for a time to Albania to learn the language.
Because in England I was finding it very difficult to learn it.
The first congregation that I was in,
there was just one family that spoke English.
But they took me under their wing. They cared for me.
But it still was very challenging trying to communicate with the brothers and sisters on the ministry.
But also learning the culture and the customs in Albania.
It took time. Very nice.
And do you also feel that Jehovah has blessed your efforts for putting forth such an effort?
Most definitely. After a year and a half I was invited to stay as a special pioneer.
And I've had the most amazing 12 years there.
The brothers and sisters are so warm and they've got such a zeal for the ministry.
They just make you want to love them.
And it's just been the most fantastic time.
And there's still so much work to do there as well.
Oh, that is fantastic. Thank you for sharing that with us.
So clearly all of you have had various circumstances and situations in your special full-time service.
And now you've received this wonderful invitation to come to Gilea.
Now that you've completed the end of your Gilea training,
what lessons have you learned that will now help you to keep contributing to the good news?
Maybe we'll just start with you.
Well, the lesson on faith really touched me.
He brews 11 verse 4.
We have the definition of faith.
But we learned that faith is that total confidence or trust that Jehovah knows what's best for us.
It's always in our best interest and it will result in our happiness.
So at times when I really don't feel qualified or I don't know why I'm going to be doing a particular assignment,
that's the time that I have to have faith in Jehovah that he'll help me.
And through our study of the prophets, we learned that the prophets were just humble men.
We had Amos, he was a herdsman, but Jehovah empowered him.
There was Hosea, he had a really difficult assignment, but Jehovah helped him.
Then there was Abraham, he just had that total confidence in Jehovah.
And they accomplished wonderful things because it wasn't in their strength, but it was their faith in Jehovah.
So those times that are going to come when I don't understand the whole picture or I don't feel that I'm really strong enough,
that's going to be the perfect opportunity that I can demonstrate my total faith in Jehovah.
And Gilead showed me that through studying these examples, I can dig deep and I can build up my confidence
so that I can work along with Jehovah and his organization in my assignment today and whatever I must to do in the future.
That's standing very nice about you sister.
For me it was the lesson about prayer.
In Mark 1.35, it says that Jesus went to an isolated place in order to pray.
So Jesus acknowledged that a person need a private time for himself to think, to meditate, to examine himself deeply, to pray in order to have a personal contentment.
Such an intimate time with Jehovah, where you pull out your heart to him and you examine yourself deeply, should be scheduled.
So despite my busy program here, I do my best to have every day my intimacy time with Jehovah and I really love it.
When I finish, I feel like I'm a new person.
Doing this will help me, will keep me in peace with Jehovah.
And whenever I am in peace with Jehovah, I will also be in peace with my brothers and sisters and that will contribute to the good news.
Very nice. What a nice gym you've given us.
Scheduled time to pray. It's a nice reminder. Thank you for that. How about you really ask?
I think for me, it was learning where real joy comes from.
Joy that's not fickle, that that can't be stolen away from me. And what we learned in class was that real joy comes from sensing and valuing Jehovah's approval.
This scripture that really brought it home for me was Luke chapter 10 and verse 20.
And this is where Jesus sent out the disciples. They've had an amazing day in the ministry.
They come back to Jesus. They're so happy and they say even the demons were casting them out too.
And Jesus says, well, that's okay. That's good. He says, but don't be happy about that.
Be happy because your names have been inscribed in the heavens. You're saying, don't base all of your joy on these results that you're getting because those results will change.
You won't always have that. Think about how your father feels about you because you're doing his work.
That was a lesson for me that I needed to learn and it's made me resolve to base my joy in future.
Not just on my work assignment or other circumstances that might change, but really from just dwelling on how Jehovah feels, how he's pleased if I just do what he asks of me.
Very nice. Thank you. For me, it's stressed the importance of maintaining balance between my work and my brotherly love.
Because as we reach the end of this system of things, Jehovah is speeding up his work as Isaiah 60, verse 22 says,
so we have to expect to work more and more under pressure. And usually when we are under pressure among the first things we tend to sacrifice are our relationship with others.
So Gilead is stressed in me that I should never let the devil weaken my love for my brothers and sisters and slow down the preaching of the good news.
We considered for that example of King Saul, who spent his whole energy and time chasing after David.
So he basically confused who the enemy was and meanwhile the Philistines got into the land.
So it was a lesson for me to deepen my love for my brothers and sisters, focus on the qualities and reject any thoughts of self-importance.
Very nice, very practical. So sound like you've all learned some fantastic lessons from Gilead.
We heard about prayer, being able to strengthen our faith, improving in our joy and brotherly love.
And we also appreciate the fact that you gave us scriptural references as well, because now you've given all of us something that we can meditate and think about. So we thank you for that.
I want to last question, perhaps on a more intimate level, what would you say Gilead has done as far as your personal relationship with Jehovah?
And perhaps brothers, just to convince why we can start with you with this question.
Gilead helped me to see Jehovah as a real person and a close friend of mine.
I see the true fullness of Psalm 139 verse 3, which says, you are familiar with all my ways. Only a father and a close friend can be such.
So is Jehovah Tomina.
And for me, it was really my intimacy time with Jehovah as a shepherd as Psalm 23 verse 5 shows.
So I felt myself as a lamp in Jehovah's hands is examining me, seeing where I have any cuts and applies oil to prevent from any parasite.
So I could see where I need to improve in my faith, in my patience, in my love for my brothers and sisters.
Very nice. Since the Williams and brothers, and when this question came up, very interesting, both of you mentioned prayer.
And then you took it in two different slides. So maybe I can you share your thoughts with us.
Yes, we had a beautiful lesson on prayer and the question was asked, do you linger in prayer?
I'm the type of person that in the beginning, I find it quite difficult to open up and express myself.
So this lesson really touched me.
It explained that the longer you talk to somebody, you become more relaxed and then you open up and you speak about things.
At Psalm 62.8, it says that we need to pour out our heart to Jehovah, and that's something that takes time.
So lingering in prayer with Jehovah, it's helped me to talk about everything that's happened during the day.
And to see where I need to make changes, because it's helped me to understand what I think and really feel about certain issues.
And I've talked with Jehovah even about things that I didn't actually want to mention, but now I know what I've got to work on.
Jehovah wants me to succeed. He's like that friend that's trying to draw out things to get really to the bottom of the problem.
He's helped his faithful ones in the past, and he wants to help me as well, and that's so warming, and it's brought me so much closer to Jehovah.
Oh, beautiful. Thank you for sharing that.
Before coming to Gilead, I really didn't know what it meant to supplicate Jehovah, to beg him for his help to really surrender to him in prayer.
But as the Gilead course kept going, I began to see the enormity of things on the inside that I needed to change and also realize that in my own strength, I'd been unable to improve in these areas.
For the first time, I started to realize that I needed to implore Jehovah for his Holy Spirit to help me try and shift some of these things, which I just couldn't do by myself.
I've still got a long way to go with those things, but what I have learned is the power that fervent prayer to Jehovah has to bring me closer to him.
Fantastic. Well, we have truly appreciated hearing from all of you, and we especially appreciate your beautiful heartfelt expressions.
You know, it's interesting in verse 6 of Philippians chapter 1, Paul told those Christians that Jehovah started a good work in them, and after listening to all of your expressions, we are confident that Jehovah has indeed started a good work in you as well.
And our prayer is that Jehovah continue to be with you, that he guides you, and that he blesses you, as you all continue to keep contributing to the good news.
We'd like to thank you very much, Brother Turner, for those very meaningful interviews and the points that we gained from them.
Well, now's another opportunity for us to stand and sing a song of praise to Jehovah, and a very nice song has been selected in harmony with the preaching work, song 141, searching for friends of peace.
You can be seated again. What a beautiful song to encourage us to keep on going in that preaching work.
When now we've come to a highlight of our program, the main talk that's going to be given, and we've privileged to have with us a member of the governing body by the Samuel Hood.
He's going to talk to us on the theme, keep your eyes on Jehovah. Some may wonder, like the young man did just a few minutes ago, how can we keep our eyes on Jehovah when it's impossible for us to see him?
Well, that last statement is true. It is impossible for mankind to look upon the creator, Jehovah.
And we know that to be so, because of what Jehovah told Moses many years ago, he said in short, you cannot see my face, for no man can see me and live.
So when we pray, we see no form. We can imagine a form of our God, Jehovah.
So what do we do while we think in the terms of his magnificence and his marvelous qualities? And we can't number all of the fine qualities that are housed in the Jehovah God.
So we are walking then by faith and not by sight. The human eye was not created to see God.
We have no reason to believe that ever in the future, that humans would be able to look upon Jehovah God. He's just too glorious.
But Jehovah created the human eye to behold many wonderful things. He wanted man to see the beauty that's all around him here on the planet Earth.
To accomplish that, he formed the light. That's why the Bible says, let there be light, then there was light.
Whatever obstructed the sun's rays from reaching the earth, God removed and brought about light. Light furnishes the many hues that delight the eyes of man, the beautiful green grass and green leaves, the variety of colorful birds, fish, vegetables, snow,
snow, and all more snow, some say and few pray, no more snow, please today. Now snow is wonderful and we appreciate it very much.
But being as frail as we are, sometimes we can get a little too much.
But the question still lingers, how does mankind see Jehovah if not with the little eye? Well, it's with the eyes of the heart.
That's what Paul said in his letter to the Ephesians, Ephesians chapter 1, in verse 18, the eyes of the heart.
How do we see God, then, while we see God by coming to know Him and appreciating the fine qualities that belong to Him?
You may recall Jesus' statement in his prayer before leaving the earth. He says, this means everlasting life. They're coming to know you, praying to his father, Jehovah.
So that's one way that we're able to see God by coming into a knowledge of Him, coming to know Him.
And as a result of your schooling, all of you here on the front rows, undoubtedly you know Him as never before.
But not like you should know Him or not like you will know Him in the future.
But today we must keep our eyes fixed on Jehovah to observe what he wants to be done in accomplishing his will.
We rivet our eyes on Jehovah that way. Eyes of servants look to the hand of the master. So our eyes look to our God, Jehovah.
Open your Bibles, please, to the 123rd Psalm, beautiful expressions here in the 123rd Psalm.
First two verses, to you I raise my eyes, you who are informed in the heavens.
As the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master and the eyes of a servant girl to the hand of her mistress.
So our eyes look to Jehovah our God until he shows us favor.
In whatever we're doing, we want Jehovah's blessing.
We want to hear His well done. So we must look to Him for that blessing.
And the Proverbs and interesting statement is made that we've read many, many times.
He says, trust in Jehovah with all your heart and do not rely on your own understanding.
But it's the next verse that we want to underscore here today.
In all your ways, take notice of Him.
And He will make your past straight, beautiful Proverbs 3.
And we think back when Moses died, Joshua may have felt alone.
But he wasn't alone.
Jehovah assured him that he was with him.
Look at Joshua 1.9, please.
It says, have I not commanded you be courageous and strong?
Do not be struck with terror or fear.
For Jehovah your God is with you wherever you go.
Now we don't know where all of you are going.
But you know where you're going.
A few of you will be going to a new place.
Not many of you.
Why? Well, your branch didn't want you to leave. That's why.
So they said send them back.
So we're going to send you back to the branch.
But we must say this to you, wherever you go, you're not alone.
Look for Jehovah and you will find him.
He is not hiding.
He will let himself be found by you.
When I was preparing this talk, I thought that my little niece and nephew years ago,
when I was a teenager, I had a great time with them.
They were twins, a little boy, a little girl.
And about the age of two, I would play hide and seek with them.
Now I could hide from them and they'd never find me.
They're just too little.
But I always kept one leg out.
Why? I wanted them to find me.
Because it delighted their heart to find me.
Well, Jehovah, in a sense, keeps one leg out.
He wants us to find him. He's not going to hide from us.
But like in hide and seek, we have to search.
Those little children had to search for me.
So we have to search for Jehovah, but he will let himself be found.
How do we know that?
Well, 1 Chronicles chapter 28, verse 9 tells us,
if you search for him, he will let himself be found by you.
And it's repeated again in 2 Chronicles 15, too.
So we say, search for Jehovah in his written word, the Bible.
Make it your aim to keep him well in view.
Do not lose sight of God's words.
His sayings.
We can liken the Bible to an open window for us to see Jehovah
and keep him in view.
We open the pages of the Bible, we look right into heaven,
right into the throne of God, many, many times.
And we do not have to be in Daniel in order for that to happen.
We can be in Matthew, we can be in Mark and Luke and Acts,
and all the other pages of the Bible.
Because God is there, Jehovah is present.
And he wants us to see him by coming to know him.
And what we see strithens our faith.
And not only that, but it makes us happy.
And that is a goal worth working for.
To be happy.
That's really what everyone on earth wants to be.
They want to be happy.
I've never met a man or a woman yet to tell me,
I just love being said.
No, all of us rejoice when something happens
that creates happiness within us.
And didn't Jesus make this interesting statement years ago?
Happy are the eyes that see the things you are seeing.
You're seeing so many things.
We're seeing things today that our brothers and sisters
in the years going by couldn't see.
We have the broadcasting, beautiful arrangement,
for us to see things that people in the past couldn't see.
And as united as this, brought us closer together
as a result of that broadcasting.
Individuals tell us as members of the governing body,
we would never feel so close to you.
And they show up at taking so many pictures.
We just feel as being persecuted for righteousness, say.
We stand up there in green.
When we look at Jesus, we are in a sense seen gone.
In fact, Philip said to Jesus,
Lord, show us the Father and it is enough for us.
Jesus said to him, even after I have been with you men
for such a long time, Philip, have you not come to know me?
And then he says, whoever has seen me has seen the Father also.
How is it you say, show us the Father?
Now of course today we can't see Jesus either,
as human here on the earth.
He's a glorified spirit creature.
And the Bible tells us that he dwells in unapproachable light.
But we do benefit.
We benefit from an afterglow
when we zero in on his life and ministry
as related in the gospels.
What do we mean by an afterglow?
Well, a lingering impression of his past brilliance.
That flashes before us constantly.
We open the pages of the Bible.
So that's how we see Jesus.
When we follow Jesus steps closely, where do they lead us?
Why right out into the ministry?
That's what Jesus did as a man here on the earth.
And we are following his steps closely.
We're dogging his steps as best we can,
helping people find the road to life,
assisting those who have found it to stay on it.
That's a big job too.
Jesus kept his eyes on Jehovah and copied what he saw.
So we want to keep our eyes on Jesus, copy what we see.
Try to mimic him.
Be as much like the Christ as is possible for us this day
in our imperfect state.
Well, what did Jesus do with the spiritual food
his father had given him?
He shared it with those who were spiritually hungry in his day.
What do we do with the food that we receive?
We share it with those who are hungry.
Those who are conscious of their spiritual need,
they want to be fed.
So we share what we have within.
And we have a lot.
We have an abundance today.
It just keeps rolling in.
The governing body of the most of our time
has spent reading what writing produces.
What is it writing produces?
Spiritual food.
It just rolls in.
Page after page after page.
We spend a weekend reading.
Well, that's the food.
Jehovah's one pouring it out.
We can't stop reading it and passing it on to the Brotherhood.
It has to go out.
It's food.
So we just proper cells up.
And read.
And when we get tired of reading, we read some more.
It just rolls in.
Jehovah's prepared us for something.
I think you know what it is.
It's the end of this world and the bright new one.
It's getting us ready.
It's never before.
Can't you sort of feel it?
It's right on us, isn't it?
And the Bible tells us we don't know the day of the hour.
It's going to come suddenly when we least expect it.
It's going to come.
So you just keep expecting it and it won't come.
But when we stop, when we least expect it, then here it is.
What a day that would be.
So feed the people in your territory.
Share the truth, the spiritual food generously with the poor people
caught up in Satan's system of things.
The Bible tells us the generous person will be blessed
for he shares his food with the poor.
Share your food with the poor.
Doesn't matter what they look like, where they live.
It's the person not the place.
It's the heart and not the face.
God's message to all people we extend.
I heard that somewhere.
Beautiful song, isn't it?
And when we get ready to play it, we just hear the friends kind of laugh.
They're getting ready for it.
They know that this is a little different than the normal.
But it's good.
When we look at Jehovah and Jesus, we see beautiful qualities.
And one outstanding quality that we see is humility.
It stands out.
Jesus bent down, washed the feet of the prideful disciples of He is.
Now why bring that up?
Well, when you get to your assignments back home or elsewhere,
display humility.
We say, don't strut like a peacock displaying your beautiful feathers
you have acquired here at Gilead School.
Your brothers and sisters would see that the school has added
to your humility if you show yourself to be humble.
They'll see that the school has intensified the beauty attached to your humility.
Your knowledge may have deepened a little while at school,
but that is not the first thing that your brothers and sisters should see
when you get back.
You're not the only one who knows how to do things.
So have confidence in your brothers and sisters ability to do things.
Jehovah had confidence in his angels, didn't he?
When he asked them, who will fool Ahad?
One stood out, said, I'll fool him.
Well, how are you going to fool him?
This is what I'm going to do.
We'll go do it.
Now Jehovah could have fooled Ahad in the best way possible,
but he didn't take that upon himself.
He let somebody else of a lesser station do it.
Can you do that when you get back home?
Rather than always be out and front in the limelight,
can you patch your brother on the back well done?
There's more than one way of doing something.
Let his way rule today.
Here's a beat tomorrow.
That's humility, and that's what we're talking about.
In the days ahead, we may be surrounded by our enemies,
and we don't know what to do.
Well, thank you back to Gilead.
Did Gilead give us a formula?
What did brother Samuelson, Numer, Burnett, Kothon, Stovol say?
I can't remember.
Where do we turn our eyes?
Well, they had a situation back years ago,
2nd Chronicles chapter 20.
Oh, our God, will you not execute judgment on them
for we are powerless before this large crowd
that is coming against us,
and we do not know what we should do.
Now notice the next line.
This is 2nd Chronicles 2012.
But our eyes are toward you.
So turn your eyes towards Jehovah.
If you run into a stalemate,
you can't know whether to go to the left or to the right,
straight ahead, back up,
then turn your eyes, heaven,
turn your eyes to Jehovah.
Look up.
Keep your eyes on Jehovah.
Open your eyes wide.
Don't squint.
You're on the front line.
Battling was Satan the devil.
His ungodly system of things.
Don't let the devil and this world shake your faith
out of your minds and hearts.
King David was tested by the devil
by his own shortcomings
and by the sins of others.
But he never lost faith.
Why?
Well, let him tell you.
He says, I keep Jehovah before me constantly
because he is at my right hand.
I will never be shaken.
Beautiful Psalm 168.
He had clear sharp vision.
And I needed to walk safely
through this dark and dismal world
in these last days.
Well, let's don't look at the things
and God's word with a blank stare
that is motionless.
But see with the heart
the things contained in the Bible.
In fact, it's good to let the Bible
serve as a flashlight
beamed toward Jehovah.
And to keep the switch turned on.
Not off.
And Jehovah will show you the way.
Follow Jesus' example.
Be generous with the truth that you have.
Now, the school has taught you many fine things.
Don't let them go to your head
so as to make it swell with pride.
Be the humble person.
Your brothers expect you to be.
You don't have to be a star.
Just a fellow player on the team.
Jesus is a star.
Follow His moves.
And you will always keep your eyes on Jehovah.
Well, we'd like to thank you very much, Brother Hood,
for that excellent talk.
We may just like to mention, Brother Hood
will not be available for photographs afterwards.
The writing committee has just delivered
insight one and two for him to check
to see if any adjustments need to be made.
Well, we certainly have had a rich
spiritual program, haven't we?
Something that we've all enjoyed.
At this point, normally we give you a few statistics
because we know there are those that always
love to hear the statistics.
So the total number of students in this class,
the 138th class, 48,
the number of married couples, 16,
the number of single brothers, 12,
the number of single sisters, 4,
and you may like to note that prior to this class,
the last single sister to attend Gilead
was in the 83rd class of Gilead,
and she graduated on September 6, 1987,
almost 28 years ago.
So I'm very happy to have some single sisters
with us here in Gilead.
The average age, 40.3 years,
average years, baptised 24 years,
and the average years in full-time service,
19.5 or 19.5 years.
So this class of Gilead,
certainly already has had a lot of experience,
and they've brought that experience with them
and has gained a lot since.
We have some greetings.
There are so many branches that have written in
with their greetings we've done.
We couldn't possibly read all of what they've said.
There are some branches perhaps that haven't
sent in greetings and their students.
Don't be discouraged students.
They're waiting to see you when you get back home,
and then they'll tell you how much they love you.
So just to list some of the countries
that have sent in these greetings, Angola,
and they mention how happy they are
that for the second time in their history,
they have a student attending the Gilead school.
Benin, Britain, Bolivia, Brazil,
and Brazil mentions after a drought of almost 50 years,
and they're not talking about rain.
We've had the privilege of sending a second couple
in less than a year.
I think they're trying to tell us something.
But they also mentioned that last service year,
they had 29,870 baptized,
and they're attendance at the memorial,
1,728,208.
That's quite outstanding.
Bulgaria sends their love as those Burundi,
Cameroon, France, Georgia, Haiti, Kazakhstan,
Liberia, Macedonia, Madagascar, Myanmar, Nigeria,
Russia sends their love, and they mentioned just
in January 2015 alone,
over 10 million pieces of literature
were distributed throughout Russia,
and there's been a 5% increase in the number of publishers.
Isn't that wonderful to hear?
And also, we have greetings from Ukraine.
Isn't it nice to know we're part of a global brotherhood
that our brothers in all these different countries
are thinking not only about this class of Gilead,
but about us here at the graduation?
Well, we've seen some of the students,
but now it's the opportunity to introduce
to you the 138th class of Gilead.
Now, for any chairman on the program,
this is the most dangerous part of the assignment,
because the chances are we'll get the assignments
mixed up with the names and so on.
So that's why I'm so happy to have brother David Schaefer here
with us, is a helper to the teaching committee,
and he's going to announce the names and the assignment,
and then I'll pass on the diplomas.
So David, let's hope you get it right.
Please, if you'd start.
And first, we have brother and sister Abbey,
and they'll be returning to Ghana.
Brother Acebes will be returning to the Philippines.
Very good.
We have brother and sister Davies,
and they're returning to Australia.
And here we have brother Edson,
and he's returning to Australia.
Here we have brother Fomine,
and he's returning to Russia.
And here we have brother Franois,
and he's returning to Haiti.
Here we have brother Shoaneli,
and he's returning to Argentina.
Brother and sister Hollis will be serving in Ukraine.
Brother Yavanovich will be returning to Macedonia.
Brother and sister Gabychoa will be returning to Congo.
Brother Kim will be serving in South Korea.
Brother Kucho di Enko will be serving in Ukraine.
Brother and sister Lee will be returning to Britain.
Brother and sister Mba will be returning to Cameroon.
Brother and sister Nying will be returning to Myanmar.
Brother and sister Namba will be serving in Asia.
Brother and sister Niel will be returning to Liberia.
Brother Nwagu will be returning to Nigeria.
Sister Razook will be returning to Lebanon.
Brother and sister Hodoriges will be returning to Brazil.
Brother Sehulia will be returning to Central African Republic.
Brother Soba will be returning to Papua New Guinea.
Brother Sona will be returning to Angola.
Sister Fan Lovidan will be returning to Bulgaria.
Sister Williams will be returning to Albania.
And brother and sister Woru will be returning to Benin.
Well, at this point we're going to ask for the dial clock to read a class letter for us.
To the governing body and the United States Bethel family, dear brothers.
From the moment we walked into your home, you opened your arms wide and embraced us into your family.
Your smiles, personal interest, and the many loving gestures have been proof of your spirituality and deep love.
You have cared for all our needs and have done so much to assist us in practical ways.
We cannot express how this helped us settle our nerves, gave us strength, and warmed our hearts.
You're doing so enabled us to concentrate on our journey through God's Word.
We wish to especially thank our dear brothers and the governing body for allowing the opportunity for single brothers and sisters,
along with married couples, to benefit from this rich theocratic training.
The variety of backgrounds and circumstances of our fellow classmates has enriched our learning experience.
Your heartfelt talks have opened up our eyes to the deeper things of God's Word.
An example of you and your wives has taught us so much.
You give of yourselves tirelessly with such a joyful spirit.
It is our desire to keep imitating the spirit you show.
We appreciate it that our instructors have shown the same spirit as Paul, who in writing to the Thessalonians said,
we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God, but also our very selves because you became beloved to us.
Your personal interest in each student, as well as your giving spirit, have provided us with a beautiful example to follow.
You have skillfully done your part.
Now it is time for us to do ours.
We recognize that the one who deserves all our praise and gratitude is Jehovah.
During the past 20 weeks, he has become even more real and dear to each of us as our love for him has deepened.
It is now our resolve to keep building on this.
We deem it an honor to serve the most high along with you, with heartfelt love, the 130th class of Gilead.
We certainly appreciated that very meaningful letter.
Well, it's my privilege now to speak to you as a first person, speaking to you as graduates of the 138th class.
And just finally, what we'd like to remind you about are the words that we mentioned in the beginning of our program.
Remember, we discussed 2nd Timothy, chapter 2, about the need to entrust this information to other faithful persons,
whether your brothers or sisters, you have that opportunity to be able to help them.
And I thought we might just take our bibles. I know you haven't got yours there, so you can just sit back and listen to this final part.
But if we look at 2nd Timothy again, we see a couple of things that help us with regard to the application of what Paul said to Timothy.
So reading again, verse 2, it said, the things you heard from me that were supported by many witnesses,
these things in trust to faithful men, who in turn will be adequately qualified to teach others.
Well, what did Paul have in mind and what does the governing body have in mind for you as well?
Well, in the same chapter in verse 14, he says, keep reminding them of these things.
So part of your work isn't necessarily for you to astound the brothers and sisters with all sorts of new, mysterious, wonderful things that you may have heard while you've been here a gillian.
Shock tactics are not mentioned here in this verse.
So a lot of what you will be doing will be just reminding the brothers of things that they've already heard.
Then it goes on to say instructing them, or as the footnote says, bearing thorough witness to them before God.
Then it goes on to say not to fight about words, something of no usefulness at all, because it harms those listening.
So don't get sidetracked with pedantics, all the little details, just encourage the brothers.
And encourage them by means of your example.
Sometimes it may be easy and you may be tempted to say, or in gillian we learnt this, or in gillian we learnt.
After a little while, if you say that a number of times, you know what the brothers will be thinking?
If they say that one more time.
And the point is, for the brothers it could be a little discouraging because they can't come to gillian.
They probably will never come to gillian.
And it seems now that they're relying on you as the only contact with gillian to enlighten them.
How much better to go to God's Word, to go to the Watchtower Library, to go to things that have already been published, and share those things with the brothers.
And then the focus is not on you as an individual, but rather on Jehovah and his organisation.
And then that way they can be strengthened.
But most of all, make sure you set an excellent example for them to follow.
And that's what verse 15 says, do your utmost to present yourself a proof to God, a workman with nothing to be ashamed of, handling the Word of the Truth.
Well, it's our confidence that you will do that.
The instructors here at Gillian have been willing to entrust to you these wonderful things that have been passed on to them.
So as you go to your assignments, whether you're returning home or going to a new assignment, we wish you Jehovah's blessing.
And may you keep in mind the need to entrust these sayings and teachings to other faithful ones.
Well, to conclude our program, we have the attendance figures.
And you may like to take a note of these. Canada tells us they had 494 attendance.
The United States, if we break it up into the various facilities.
Patterson, here in Patterson we had 3,708 in Brooklyn, 3,302.
Wal-Kill had 2,761.
Wal-Wick had 2,249.
Florida for Lauderdale, 105.
Florida Palm Coast, 201.
The Newberg Assembly Hall, 1,210.
Jamaica, 76.
Puerto Rico, 100.
It makes a total for the United States branch territory of 13,712.
The grand total, 14,206.
That's 1,900 more than last time.
Well, it's certainly our wish and desire that Jehovah will bless these graduates of the 138th class
and that they will continue to stand firm.
And it's appropriate that we conclude by seeing, song 139,
teach them to stand firm.
At the conclusion of the song, brother William Malafond,
who's a teacher for many years with SIA helper for many years to the teaching committee,
will offer the final prayer.
So song 139.